README.md, before:

# Course of Javascript Complete from zero the to build app with React and Nodejs
**Summary Of course:**

First learned Fundamentals of Javascript, and later Events, funcitions, and Local Storage.

## Table of Contents
- [Local Storage and Event Delegation](#projects-with-local-Storage-and-event-delegation)
- [Class in Javascript](#class-in-javascript)
-  [AJAX in Javascript](#ajax-in-javascript)
- [API in Javascript](#apis-in-javascript)
- [Rest API](#rest-apis-in-javascript)
- [Rest API Endpoints and Request](#rest-api-endpoints-and-request)
- [Rest API Example](#rest-api-example)
- [Syncrhonous code in Javascript](#syncrhonous-and-asyncrhonous-code-in-javascript)
- [Callbacks in Javascript](#callbacks)
- [Promises in Javascript](#promises)
- [Async Awaiy in Javascript](#async-await)
- [Fetch API vs AJAX](#fetch-api-vs-ajax--converting-ajax-project-with-fetch-api)
- [Project with Fetch API - Async Await - Class - Arrow Functions](#seventh-project--using-fetchapi---async-await---class---arrow-function)



# Projects with Local Storage and Event Delegation

# First Project

In this first project i builded a litte app what it allows add new tweet and the front-end, the first concept so you understan better, i create my const selecting the place for print the new Tweet.

**You can add the Local Storage:**

  `localStorage.setItem('tweets', JSON.stringify(tweets)); `


![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/4-LolcalStorage(Twitter)/Twitter/tweet.png)

# Second Project

![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/5-PrimerProyecto(Carrito)/carrito/Carshop.png)

# Third project

![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/6-SegundoProyecto(Email)/email/Email.png)

# Projects With EcmaScritp 6

# Class in Javascript 

```javascript
class Client(){
  constructor(name, salary){
    this.name = name;
    this.saldo = salary;
  }
  
  //Here we can print prototypes
  printSalary(){
    return `Hello ${this.name}, you salary is $${this.salary} `
  }
}
```
# Fourth project | Class in Javscript and constructor

![carsecure](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/9-cotizaSeguro/cotizador-coches.png)

# Fiveth project | Class in Javscript and constructor

![gastos](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/10-GastoSemanal-Class/gasto-semanal.png)

# AJAX in Javascript 

```javascript
const boton1 = document.getElementById('boton1');

boton1.addEventListener('click', function(){

    const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();

    xhr.open('GET', 'empleado.json', true);

    xhr.onload = function(){
        if(this.status === 200){
            const persona = JSON.parse(this.responseText);

            //construir un template

            const htmlTemplate = ` 
                <ul>
                    <li>ID: ${persona.id}</li>
                    <li>Nombre: ${persona.nombre}</li>
                    <li>Trabajo: ${persona.trabajo}</li>
                    <li>Empresa: ${persona.empresa}</li>
                </ul>
            `;

            document.getElementById('empleado').innerHTML = htmlTemplate;
        }
    }

    xhr.send();

});
```

# API'S in Javascript 

**API** = Application Pramaming Interface
In basic terms, API's just allow applications to communite with one another.

**Excelent blog, for to learn about API's**
(https://medium.com/@perrysetgo/what-exactly-is-an-api-69f36968a41f)

**And this is my blog** 
(g4brieljs.com)

Example: google maps API

# REST API's in Javascript

**REST** = Representational State Transfer
Rest describe how resources can be made available.

# REST API EndPoints and Request

A **REST API** has Endpoints (or Urls) to perform CRUD operations.

-List all **GET** clients /clients
-Get a single **GET** client /clients/10
-create a new **POST** client /clients
-Edit a **PUT** contact /costumers/3
-Delete a **DELETE** contact /costomers/8

# REST API Example

Building The URL, to which we pass the data provided by the user, and with this Rest API you can print with AJAX

```javascript
// building the url
    let url = '';
    // ? se usa cuando quieres enviar mas parametros en la url
    url += 'http://uinames.com/api/?'

     // Si hay origen agregarlo a la URL
    if(origenSeleccionado !== ''){
        url += `region=${origenSeleccionado}&`
    }
    // si hay genero aggregarlo a la url
    if(generoSeleccionado !== ''){
        url += `gender=${generoSeleccionado}&`;
    }
    // si hay una cantida, agregarlo a la url
    if(cantidad !== ''){
        url += `amount=${cantidad}&`;
    }

    console.log(url);

```

# Sixth project | REST-API's and AJAX and Javascript

![generadorNames](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/14-Project-WithRESTAPI/generador-Names.png)

# Syncrhonous and Asyncrhonous Code in Javascript 

 The **Syncrhonous** code is executed **from the first line to the last**.  

The **Asyncrhonous** code **can be executed any part of the code without for another part of it**.
This code is more used when you use API or REST API, if you charge 1000 clients in you website, you no want stop you website.

**Example**

XMLHhttRequest and FETCH API

**In Javsacript you will have at your disposal these functions to create asyncrhonous code:**

-Callbacks
-Promises
-Async/Await

# Callbacks 

```javascript
// Add new client later two second
function newClient(clients, callback){
    setTimeout(function(){
        client.push(clients);
        callback();
    }, 2000);
}

// The clients show later one second
function showClient(){
    // simulando un servidor
    setTimeout(function(){

        let html = '';

        client.forEach(function(clients){
            html += `<li>${clients}</li>`;
        });
        document.getElementById('app').innerHTML = html;

    }, 1000);
}
```

# Promises 

```javascript
const applyOffer = new Promise(function(resolve, reject){
    // Simulando a Error
    const offer = false;
    if(offer){
        resolve('Apply Offer for you');
    }else{
        reject('You no have Offer');
    }
});

// you ever use then with cath
applyOffer.then(function(result){
    console.log(result);
}).catch(function(error){
    console.log(error);
});
```

# Async Await

```javascript
async function readTodos(){
    // Wait the answer
    const answer = await fetch('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos');

    const date = await answer.json();

    return date;

}

readTodos()
    .then( users => console.log(users));
```

# Fetch API vs AJAX | Converting AJAX project, with FETCH API

```javascript
 fetch(url)
        .then(res => {
            return res.json();
        })
        .then(data => {
            let html = '<h2>Nombres generados</h2>';
            html += `<ul class="lista">`;

            data.forEach(names => {
                html += `
                    <li>${names.name}</li>
                `;
            });

            html += `</ul>`;

            document.querySelector('#resultado').innerHTML = html;
        })
```

# Seventh project | Using FetchAPI - Async Await - Class - Arrow Function 


![generadorNames](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/14-Project-WithRESTAPI/generador-Names.png)

# Now i'am building my personal project 

Coming soon!

Commit message:

Project with async await, class, arrow function, promises, fetch API

README.md, after:

# Course of Javascript Complete from zero the to build app with React and Nodejs
**Summary Of course:**

First learned Fundamentals of Javascript, and later Events, funcitions, and Local Storage.

## Table of Contents
- [Local Storage and Event Delegation](#projects-with-local-Storage-and-event-delegation)
- [Class in Javascript](#class-in-javascript)
-  [AJAX in Javascript](#ajax-in-javascript)
- [API in Javascript](#apis-in-javascript)
- [Rest API](#rest-apis-in-javascript)
- [Rest API Endpoints and Request](#rest-api-endpoints-and-request)
- [Rest API Example](#rest-api-example)
- [Syncrhonous code in Javascript](#syncrhonous-and-asyncrhonous-code-in-javascript)
- [Callbacks in Javascript](#callbacks)
- [Promises in Javascript](#promises)
- [Async Awaiy in Javascript](#async-await)
- [Fetch API vs AJAX](#fetch-api-vs-ajax--converting-ajax-project-with-fetch-api)
- [Project with Fetch API - Async Await - Class - Arrow Functions](#seventh-project--using-fetchapi---async-await---class---arrow-function)



# Projects with Local Storage and Event Delegation

# First Project

In this first project i builded a litte app what it allows add new tweet and the front-end, the first concept so you understan better, i create my const selecting the place for print the new Tweet.

**You can add the Local Storage:**

  `localStorage.setItem('tweets', JSON.stringify(tweets)); `


![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/4-LolcalStorage(Twitter)/Twitter/tweet.png)

# Second Project

![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/5-PrimerProyecto(Carrito)/carrito/Carshop.png)

# Third project

![Local Storage](https://github.com/g4brieljs/curso-javascript/blob/master/6-SegundoProyecto(Email)/email/Email.png)

# Projects With EcmaScritp 6

# Class in Javascript 

```javascript
class Client(){
  constructor(name, salary){
    this.name = name;
    this.saldo = salary;
  }
  
  //Here we can print prototypes
  printSalary(){
    return `Hello ${this.name}, you salary is $${this.salary} `
  }
}
```
# Fourth project | Class in Javscript and constructor

![carsecure](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/9-cotizaSeguro/cotizador-coches.png)

# Fiveth project | Class in Javscript and constructor

![gastos](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/10-GastoSemanal-Class/gasto-semanal.png)

# AJAX in Javascript 

```javascript
const boton1 = document.getElementById('boton1');

boton1.addEventListener('click', function(){

    const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();

    xhr.open('GET', 'empleado.json', true);

    xhr.onload = function(){
        if(this.status === 200){
            const persona = JSON.parse(this.responseText);

            //construir un template

            const htmlTemplate = ` 
                <ul>
                    <li>ID: ${persona.id}</li>
                    <li>Nombre: ${persona.nombre}</li>
                    <li>Trabajo: ${persona.trabajo}</li>
                    <li>Empresa: ${persona.empresa}</li>
                </ul>
            `;

            document.getElementById('empleado').innerHTML = htmlTemplate;
        }
    }

    xhr.send();

});
```

# API'S in Javascript 

**API** = Application Pramaming Interface
In basic terms, API's just allow applications to communite with one another.

**Excelent blog, for to learn about API's**
(https://medium.com/@perrysetgo/what-exactly-is-an-api-69f36968a41f)

**And this is my blog** 
(g4brieljs.com)

Example: google maps API

# REST API's in Javascript

**REST** = Representational State Transfer
Rest describe how resources can be made available.

# REST API EndPoints and Request

A **REST API** has Endpoints (or Urls) to perform CRUD operations.

-List all **GET** clients /clients
-Get a single **GET** client /clients/10
-create a new **POST** client /clients
-Edit a **PUT** contact /costumers/3
-Delete a **DELETE** contact /costomers/8

# REST API Example

Building The URL, to which we pass the data provided by the user, and with this Rest API you can print with AJAX

```javascript
// building the url
    let url = '';
    // ? se usa cuando quieres enviar mas parametros en la url
    url += 'http://uinames.com/api/?'

     // Si hay origen agregarlo a la URL
    if(origenSeleccionado !== ''){
        url += `region=${origenSeleccionado}&`
    }
    // si hay genero aggregarlo a la url
    if(generoSeleccionado !== ''){
        url += `gender=${generoSeleccionado}&`;
    }
    // si hay una cantida, agregarlo a la url
    if(cantidad !== ''){
        url += `amount=${cantidad}&`;
    }

    console.log(url);

```

# Sixth project | REST-API's and AJAX and Javascript

![generadorNames](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/14-Project-WithRESTAPI/generador-Names.png)

# Syncrhonous and Asyncrhonous Code in Javascript 

 The **Syncrhonous** code is executed **from the first line to the last**.  

The **Asyncrhonous** code **can be executed any part of the code without for another part of it**.
This code is more used when you use API or REST API, if you charge 1000 clients in you website, you no want stop you website.

**Example**

XMLHhttRequest and FETCH API

**In Javsacript you will have at your disposal these functions to create asyncrhonous code:**

-Callbacks
-Promises
-Async/Await

**For to learn more**

- **Callbacks/Spanish**(https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Glossary/Callback_function)
- **Promises/Spanish**(https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/JavaScript/Referencia/Objetos_globales/Promise)
- **Async-Await/Spanish**(https://developer.mozilla.org/es/docs/Web/JavaScript/Referencia/Sentencias/funcion_asincrona)
- **Callbacks-vs-promises-vs-asyncAwait/English**(https://medium.com/@ThatGuyTinus/callbacks-vs-promises-vs-async-await-f65ed7c2b9b4)

# Callbacks 

```javascript
// Add new client later two second
function newClient(clients, callback){
    setTimeout(function(){
        client.push(clients);
        callback();
    }, 2000);
}

// The clients show later one second
function showClient(){
    // simulando un servidor
    setTimeout(function(){

        let html = '';

        client.forEach(function(clients){
            html += `<li>${clients}</li>`;
        });
        document.getElementById('app').innerHTML = html;

    }, 1000);
}
```

# Promises 

```javascript
const applyOffer = new Promise(function(resolve, reject){
    // Simulando a Error
    const offer = false;
    if(offer){
        resolve('Apply Offer for you');
    }else{
        reject('You no have Offer');
    }
});

// you ever use then with cath
applyOffer.then(function(result){
    console.log(result);
}).catch(function(error){
    console.log(error);
});
```

# Async Await

```javascript
async function readTodos(){
    // Wait the answer
    const answer = await fetch('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos');

    const date = await answer.json();

    return date;

}

readTodos()
    .then( users => console.log(users));
```

# Fetch API vs AJAX | Converting AJAX project, with FETCH API

```javascript
 fetch(url)
        .then(res => {
            return res.json();
        })
        .then(data => {
            let html = '<h2>Nombres generados</h2>';
            html += `<ul class="lista">`;

            data.forEach(names => {
                html += `
                    <li>${names.name}</li>
                `;
            });

            html += `</ul>`;

            document.querySelector('#resultado').innerHTML = html;
        })
```

# Seventh project | Using FetchAPI - Async Await - Class - Arrow Function 


![currencyQuotes](https://github.com/g4brieljs/Course-Javascript/blob/master/21-cryptocurrency-quote/crypto.png)

# Now i'am building my personal project | E-commerce with Stack MERN, and other Language for backend the which is Python and Djando

Coming soon!
